History and other useful information
**************************************

*V.E.R.A. -- Virtual Entity of Relevant Acronyms*

*Version 7.2* (June 2006)

Version 7.2 (Texinfo release 1.17) contains about 405 acronyms more
than the last release. Now V.E.R.A. knows about 11025 acronyms.

*Version 7.0* (June 2005)

Version 7.0 (Texinfo release 1.16) contains about 106 acronyms more
than the last release. Now V.E.R.A. knows about 10620 acronyms.

*Version 6.9* (March 2005)

Version 6.9 (Texinfo release 1.15) contains about 262 acronyms more
than the last release. Now V.E.R.A. knows about 10514 acronyms.

*Version 6.7* (September 2004)

Version 6.7 (Texinfo release 1.14) contains about 92 acronyms more than
the last release. Now V.E.R.A. knows about 10252 acronyms.

Until I find out how to put V.E.R.A. back into the GNU system, I will
provide it on my home page at http://home.snafu.de/ohei.  I have
repeatedly written to addresses given in postings, asking for
information on how to access the GNU server to no availability. Those
guys must be busy, very busy.

*Version 6.6* (June 2004)

Version 6.6 (Texinfo release 1.13) contains about 290 acronyms more
than the last release. Now V.E.R.A. knows about 10160 acronyms.

Until I find out how to put V.E.R.A. back into the GNU system, I will
provide it on my home page at http://home.snafu.de/ohei.

*Version 6.5* (December 2003)

Version 6.5 (Texinfo release 1.12) contains about 210 acronyms more
than the last release. Now V.E.R.A. knows about 9870 acronyms.

Until I find out how to put V.E.R.A. back into the GNU system, I will
provide it on my home page at http://home.snafu.de/ohei.

*Version 6.3* (June 2003)

Version 6.3 (Texinfo release 1.11) contains about 150 acronyms more
than the last release. Now V.E.R.A. knows about 9660 acronyms.

I had problems finding an proper way to upload the last release
(Texinfo release 1.10) to the GNU server. All seem to have changed, the
old FTP Server is down, my e-mail contact is gone etc.

Until I find out how to put V.E.R.A. back into the system, I will
provide it on my home page at http://home.snafu.de/ohei.

*Version 6.2* (March 2003)

Version 6.2 (Texinfo release 1.10) contains about 300 acronyms more
than the last release. Now V.E.R.A. knows about 9510 acronyms.

For the log: There neither had been a GNU nor a Non-GNU edition of
V.E.R.A. in September 2002.

*Version 6.0* (June 2002)

Version 6.0 (Texinfo release 1.9) contains about 289 acronyms more than
the last release. Now V.E.R.A. knows about 9203 acronyms.

Fixed some formatting bugs which had accumulated. Thanks for reporting
those.

There has been a request to add a 'README' file to the distribution. I
added one.

Also added a Perl search routine for V.E.R.A. from Andres Soolo <soolo
[at] math . ut . ee>. You will find it in  the `./contrib' directory of
the distribution.  For bug reports please contact Andres.

*Version 5.8* (December 2001)

Version 5.8 (Texinfo release 1.8) contains about 426 acronyms more than
the last release. Now V.E.R.A. knows about 8914 acronyms.

*Version 5.5* (March 2001)

Version 5.5 (Texinfo release 1.7) contains about 320 acronyms more than
the last release. Now V.E.R.A. knows about 8440 acronyms.

There had been no update of the GNU version for nearly a year, which
was mostly due to the lack of significant increase of acronyms.

Please note that this is the first GNU edition of V.E.R.A.  to be
released under the GNU Free Documentation License.

Please also note that Bob Hilliard <hilliard [at] debian . org> now
maintains the Debian vera package as well as the dict-* packages for
the Debian GNU/LINUX distribution.

*Version 5.2* (June 2000)

Welcome to the first GNU edition of V.E.R.A. in the year 100, eh, I
mean 1900+100 :)

Version 5.2 (Texinfo release 1.6) contains about 500 acronyms more than
the last release. Now V.E.R.A. knows about than 8119 acronyms.

There had been no update of the GNU version for over a year, which was
mostly due to the lack of significant increase of acronyms.

Thanks to all the supporters, some of which did send huge lists with
new acronyms.

*Version 4.7* (March 1999)

Version 4.7 (Texinfo release 1.5) contains about 100 acronyms more than
the last release. Now V.E.R.A. knows about than 7592 acronyms.

Corrected a bug in my script to replace german comments with the
according english terms which led to the comment brackets being deleted
in every line touched by it.

*Version 4.6* (December 1998)

Version 4.6 had not been released as Texinfo version, because there was
no significant increase in the count of acronyms.

*Version 4.5* (September 1998)

Version 4.5 (Texinfo release 1.4) contains about 90 acronyms more than
the last release. Now V.E.R.A. knows about than 7490 acronyms.

I also received a lot of spelling corrections for the acronym
expansions as well as for the text of this Texinfo release. Thanks to
the submitters.

*Version 4.4* (June 1998)

Version 4.4 (Texinfo release 1.3) contains about 250 acronyms more than
the last release. Now V.E.R.A. knows about more than 7400 acronyms.

Version 4.2 had accidently been released containing ISO 8859-1
characters. I received no complaints, but I believe not everyone can
display these characters as meant to be, so I switched back to 7 bit
with this version.

Recently V.E.R.A. ran into copyright/trademark problems. It's
unbelievable how small the name space in the computer field went over
the years. To give you an example there are acronyms in this list which
have five or more different meanings.  However Systems Science Inc.
agreed to solve the problem by including the following sentence into
the distribution: "This dictionary has nothing to do with Systems
Science Inc.  or its products."  Please don't wonder if you
surprisingly run into this sentence.

*Version 4.3* (March 1998)

I found no time to release V.E.R.A. 4.3 as Texinfo version in March
1998 as I was busy with other things. As compiling the Texinfo version
is always additional work to do, I thought of to spare the March
version and release the next Texinfo version on the next release date
(June, 1st).

*Version 4.2*

Version 4.2 contains about 180 acronyms more than the last release.  I
also received a mail from the folks who maintain the GNU catalogue.
This may mean that V.E.R.A. will be included on the GNU CD-ROM
distribution, but I'm not sure.

*Version 4.1* (December 1997)

Version 4.1 contains about 500 acronyms more than the initial release.
Now V.E.R.A. knows about more than 7000 acronyms.

Besides I wrote a script which automagically translates the German
references sometimes to be found behind the acronym expansions in the
original version of V.E.R.A. into the appropriate English terms.  It
also adds `Germany' to German locations. However I still may have
missed some German terms or locations.  It is kind of awful to
proof-read 7000 acronym expansions.  If you still spot German terms in
the references, please let me know about.

